# classification-project

#### Welcome to this initial exploration of customer churn at TelcoCo!
#### The goals of this initial exploration are as follows:
- Discover "Driving Factors" which most likely lead customer churn
- Discover the customer segment which is most responsible for revenue
- Discover the customer segment which is most likely to churn out
- Identify those customers who are within the scope of said target customer segment
- Create a Machine Learning Model which can accurately predict customer churn before it happens

#### Initial hypotheses and questions:
#### What % of Telco Customers have No "Perceived Commitment" to Telco in combination with low "Switching Costs"?
- Do customers with "Month-to-Month" contracts churn out at a statistically significant greater rate than the overall population?
- Do customers with "Paperless Billing" enabled churn out at a statistically significant greater rate than the overall population?
- Do customers without "Dependents" churn out at a statistically significant greater rate than the overall population?
- Do customers without "Partners" churn out at a statistically significant greater rate than the overall population?
- Do customers who comprise the largest customer segment churn out at a statistically significant greater rate than the overall population?

#### HYPOTHESIS: Customers in this segmnent churn at greater rates than the overall Telco customer base

#### Data Dictionary (not all attributes may be visible in all instances): ADD VALUE COUNTS!
customer_id:                  integer                   each customer has unique ID

gender:                       string                    Male/Female           

senior_citizen:               enumerated integer        1-YES 2-NO

partner:                      string                    Yes/No

dependents:                   string                    Yes/No

tenure:                       integer                   number of months customer has been with Telco

phone_service / online_security / online_backup /
device_protection / tech_support / streaming_tv / 
streaming_movies / paperless_billing:  
                              string                    Yes/No

multiple_lines:               string                    Yes/No/No phone service

contract_type:                string                    Month-to-month/One year/Two year

internet_service_type:        string                    DSL/Fiber optic/None

payment_type:                 string                    Bank transfer(auto)/Credit card/ 
                                                        (auto)/Electronic check/Mailed check

#### Project Planning:
- Plan: Questions and Hypothesis
- Acquire: Compile custom dataset from Telco SQL server
- Prepare: Encode required columns and split into ML subsets (Train/Validate/Test)
- Explore: 
- Model
- Deliver


#### Instructions for those who wish to follow along:
Needed (ALL files must be placed in THE SAME FOLDER!):
- 1. final_report.ipynb file from this git repo
- 2. acquire.py file from this git repo
- 3. prepare.py file from this git repo 
- 4. env.py file to be generated by IT.  You must use your own env.py file with your own sign-in credentials.  Please contact IT if you are in need of obtaining this.  Otherwise, feel free to create your env.py script with any text editor by following these steps:
- In your newly opened file, we will place 2 Blocks of Info.  Copy/Paste the following three lines:

            host = 'address for database server'
            uname = 'your assigned user name'
            pwd = 'the password associated with your user name'

            # The 2nd Block of Info: (Copy/Paste the 2nd Block below the 1st Block)
            def get_db_url(u_name,pwd,h_name,db_name):
                return f'mysql+pymysql://{u_name}:{pwd}@{h_name}/{db_name}'
Ensure:
- All 4 files are in the SAME FOLDER
- acquire.py, prepare.py, and env.py each have the .py extension in the file name
- The two Blocks of Info in the env.py file are all aligned at the left-most index of the page EXCEPT the final line of code beginning with "return".  This line should be 4 whitespaces (or 1 TAB) indented from the rest.
- If your choose to CREATE your env.py file, ensure that each of the 3 variables (host,uname,pwd) are wrapped in single-quotes ' ' as in the example.

Any further troubleshooting required, please email me at myemail@somecompany.com.


#### Findings, Recommendations, and Takeaways: